welcome to sam's business growth show
i'm sam dunning a digital marketing
sales and business growth evangelist
tune in and subscribe today as i'll be
interviewing business leaders
experts and entrepreneurs from around
the globe you'll be learning their story
how digital marketing has helped them
along the way and exclusive tips
insights to help you skyrocket your own
[Music]
business
and welcome back to a fresh episode of
sam's business growth show
i'm delighted today to be joined by
alison edgar
ellison is the director at sales
coaching solutions limited she teaches
startups
micro owned and managed businesses and
sales team on how to sell
fantastic products and services over and
over again according to forbes magazine
ninety percent of all startup businesses
fail allison made
her one mission to flip this statistic
on its head and give every business a
fighting chance
she's been crowned entrepreneur's
godmother by plethora of successful
entrepreneurs including dragon's den
and apprentice winners in recognition of
her outstanding
contribution to enterprise alison was
invited to attend the queen's royal
garden party
at buckingham palace and was named one
of the uk's top 10
business advisors she now works with
congrats
such as sky and the discovery channel to
teach their teams to think
entrepreneurially
which encourages growth mindsets outside
of the box thinking
and leads to increasing overall sales
her debut book secrets
of sales sorry secrets of successful
sales
is an international bestseller with over
120 5 star reviews she's been stocked in
the top 10 business books
in which myths and was featured in the
independence 2019
top business books written by women
alison
that is a heck of a lot of good things
that you've done a very warm welcome
how are you doing thank you so much time
literally i promise you
i never tired of hearing that
introduction because
um i never ever thought that i would do
any of those things so i think like a
takeaway straight away for the listeners
is actually
you can do whatever you want to do if
you put your mind to it so
thank you for such a lovely welcome no
worries some incredible feats there
that's for sure so
excited and looking forward to jumping
in today allison
and as always there's a few main things
that we'd love to learn from yourself
and we want to learn your top business
growth strategies
we want to earn your top digital
marketing and marketing general tips for
the audience but before we get to that
good stuff
we'd love to learn a bit more about
yourself so where you grew up a bit more
about your story really alison so some
of the key businesses you've worked at
and some actionable tips in business
sales and marketing that you could share
with us please
for sure so um as you can hear by the
accent
i'm scottish i don't know if you've had
any other scottish people on the podcast
so
i think we have actually i don't think
we have so i'm your
premier scottish person so um
although we live not too far away like
i'm in wiltshire
and you're in the small set so we met
through linkedin and linkedin makes the
world so small doesn't that you can fit
the world certainly
as far as linkedin goes so it's
interesting
originally i would never have classified
myself in sales
or in business my background is actually
hospitality
so i started as a hotel receptionist i
left school at 16
and moved into hotel reception and i
think it was a really small
family hotel and i was talking to
somebody yesterday and i think this is
one of the most important things that i
learned that
when i started i thought that all hotel
receptions did was smile and give out
keys i thought that's a great
job good i can do that but actually what
happened was
i learned a lot about running the
business because every single penny that
came through the hotel
was actually coming through me so oh
this is going to make me sound really
old
but there was no computers we had to do
it all in manual tab so it was like a
big book
must be really good and a rubber well we
did have calculators it was like after
the abacus days we did our calculator
so what it did give me a great
understanding was how to make money in a
business
and i think that was a you know
fundamental skill
that i could work out i could also work
out um
if any of the stock went missing so if
the bar stock was missing i could work
out
based on the measures also when i was 17
i was
emceeing weddings so it gave me a really
good
understanding of people leadership so
i really started at quite a young age
with the skills
and in business i think that was
important i then went on to work
in cape town for southern suns and for
radisson
in sydney so i worked internationally me
my little backpack
toodled around the world for six years
so
amazing but that was quite an experience
well again you know it's
kind of bringing it back to the
listeners that
you know it was a really frightening
thing to change and move countries and
do that on my own and i think we become
quite complacent in our path and and we
take the path of least resistance and
sometimes actually to fill your full
potential
you have to be brave and be bold and do
things differently especially now
the way the world is you know a lot of
people in sales
you know potentially losing their jobs
and different things it's you know
really doing you know being bold and
making sure you do things differently
because i think it's
you know fortune favors the brave so
when i came back to the uk um i met my
husband who i'm still
i'm still married to 20 odd years later
and he had
was a software developer and he worked
monday to friday nine to
five so i had an ultimatum
i think unless i got a job that was
monday to friday nine to five i was
going to get dumped sam
so it was a keeper i decided i quite
liked this one
so i had to get a job monday to friday
and at the time they were advertising
for one of the first outbound call
centers
that bt had ever opened in the country
interesting okay
yeah dmdr direct mail direct response so
i had never been
sales trained um and they used to
literally take 200 offers so they took
they opened the call center at the same
time
and they would take us from glasgow on a
monday morning
down to milton keynes because milton
keynes was the
the main training for ola bt
and then on a friday afternoon 200
scottish people returned over the border
with the bar open so i apologize to
anyone that was on that tree well that
was the right part of the afternoon from
milton keynes
central um but what you know the really
important thing with that was
i was taught sales and i think this is
interesting because a lot of people
um you know the gift of the gab they
move into sales but they're not
actually given any trade proper
regimented training on how to sell
and i think you know ultimately sales
training as a sales trainer
is i believe that you've got to know
the sales process like the back of your
hand because
when i watch somebody who can sell now i
call it the magical dance because
if if they really love sales if they
really
you know know the process i know the
next word that's coming out their mouth
it's like watching you know swan league
you know the next paddy bar that's
coming out
and that's like sale so you know you're
bringing that back to the listeners if
you have
moved into a sales job and you've not
been given structured sales training
through your company then you need to be
investing in that yourself you know you
need to be buying good books
you know one of the things we were
saying all fair sam is obviously you've
had some stonking names on this podcast
you've brought in
the greatest of the great in this arena
you know listen to podcasts like yours
because
the little nuggets will really help the
listeners
so appreciate it so just before we move
on yeah i like that you said
a couple of things there before when you
said one in cape town for six years
traveling
um i love the fact you said be bold and
be brave in sales
so a lot of us can be guilty of getting
stuck in a rut
and we think like i haven't hit myself
target for the last two months
um but i'm going to keep doing the same
thing i'm going to keep sending emails
i'm going to keep doing cold calls i'm
going to see
sending spammy uh dms on linkedin so
what when when you save you brave are
there any tangible examples you give us
of that allison of unusual ways to
to break break the mold and reach out to
our ideal customers
yeah i mean it's interesting because i
know that your very first guest with dan
disney and i'm a huge
fan of dan and um i love the way that
dan
and daryl from vanilla soft bounce off
each other and
and i'm a real fan of i would say
social marketing meet social selling and
i think that's how you do it right so
this is a really great tangible
example of what i mean by that so
i'm a real avid you know when we look at
digital marketing like i'll post
uh an engagement post twice a day
usually on linkedin and
you know have a good open question so
what's your thoughts on that how do you
do this blah blah blah blah
and what that does is you know i've got
about 20 000 connections that i've built
up over the years and a lot of them are
really active you know a lot of them are
like a bit of a fan base in there they
love
the work that i do they comment on it
which obviously shares it around their
connections
so a lot of people will view my profile
and i think this is the thing that
by generating that you know marketing
strategy
it people will look at who's viewed the
profile but then they ignore it and i'm
thinking well that's like getting in a
room
somebody smiles at you you know makes
eye contact and then you dress them why
would you do that
so i'll give you two examples of how
this has really paid off and again
it's a numbers game like we would have
gone in the cold calling world
you know dial dial dial you know so
sometimes you'll start connections and
they're not the right type of customers
when you qualify them
but two people this has happened twice
to me and they've viewed the profile
and i've said oh you know thanks very
much for viewing the profile were you
looking for something specific
just updating your you know your network
you know what's happening in your world
again good open questions
to me that like you can say all you like
about sales but it hasn't
changed if you ask a good open question
you're going to be able to start a
conversation
and that's all sales is so on both
occasions
one the first time it happened someone
said i'm looking to run the first event
in the middle east of its kind to teach
entrepreneurism and sales
the second time said i'm running an
event
for the european commission in brussels
and i'm looking for a keynote speaker
so again just by not bad leads then
not bad leads you know and generated
from nothing you know and this is what i
think is social selling so
if you're not doing that you should be
doing or if you look at somebody's
profile that
again i'll look at a networking and i
call it snog marry a void
so not really marry them but
hypothetically a highly qualified
prospect
then what you would do is they would
probably look back at your profile and
then you could start to engage that
conversation
imagine it you're at the pub and you're
you know quite fancy somebody
and you're having that you know it's
that it's the same thing isn't it
so um and i think this is really
important so
so many people then start to continue
the conversation
on dms or maybe email don't
don't get it off linkedin and get it on
zoom
or get it on the phone and that's
exactly where to me that's where
marketing and sales
really marketing ends at the moving on
to zoom or phone call
and that's where sales begins and i
think that's where the beautiful dance
between sales and marketing
really starts to pull together and you
know touchwood i ran the event
in kuwait and i was due to speak at the
european commission in front of 600
people
on the 17th of march which was obviously
cancelled
for obvious reasons but you know what
they still paid me it's still my client
i can still say that i've worked with
them so again i think it's just really
important to use strategies like that
whereas
you always do you're always down you'll
always get what you've always got you
need to evolve
especially i mean it's interesting
because we look at a lot of my
entrepreneurs godmother clients are
young really young entrepreneurs
apprentice winners dragons den winners
all in their 20s
and then i train people my age middle
aged shall we say
and i think it's again the young people
that i tend to work with they love
linkedin you love you know using the
social but they're not as keen on the
phone
and then the older people again i feel i
can see that because i'm
in the middle age generation they like
you know the face to face but they're
not as keen on the digital and to me
the sales superstars are the ones that
are combining both of them at the moment
that's where the gold dust is like that
and that's definitely something i don't
do enough of
um maybe i call it because i'm too busy
i mean i post a heck of a lot on
linkedin but i don't really utilize that
you viewed your profile section much
so often that's gold dust yeah i don't
know it sounds like it i mean what i do
i mean i if someone views my profile i
usually connect
and if they look like a prospective
customer i might send a tailored message
but what you've said there is a really
really good actionable tip for everyone
to start doing because they can
so essentially we look you viewed our
profile and we send them a tailored
message so hi
um x thanks for viewing my profile i
wondered um what piqued your interest
to browse or something open-ended like
that i quit
or i sometimes do alternative clothes in
there you know were you looking for
something
or just updating a network because i
think sometimes like
because again as as trained sales people
we want to go what were you looking for
why were you looking because we wanted
like always stick to open questions
because that's again one of the key
things isn't it
but sometimes to soften it but an
alternative question in there isn't a
bad thing no that's great and then if if
they obviously give some kind of
positive response
like actually i was looking to do this
or i was looking for help with this
or then look to move offline so can we
set up a phone call
skype call yeah i mean sometimes people
say oh
i've just read one of your articles or i
really like the post i found them really
motivational
well that's great you know what and
again then you go back to say oh that
what was it about that post that you
know really you really enjoyed or
what was it about my article you know
again you can have that conversation
and then flip it back to them and find
out what's going on and again
it's just qualification it's what you
would do if you were doing it on the
phone it's just
to me you know people ask me all the
time
and you must get it as well is cold
calling dead or alive well
it's it's a combination of warm calling
and social marketing i think is what
where we're at now we do
i i would really challenge any company
that says i've got a guy that sits in a
booth every day going can i speak
the person that deals with you and i'm
making them do a hundred calls a day
because it's not 1984.
that's not what we should be doing in
sales we don't have to do it that way
anymore
in b2b as in b2b especially and b2b it
shouldn't be cold calling really anymore
should it with all the information we've
got
well i so i mean it's quite interesting
because i don't actually think that b2c
is sales anymore i think it's purely
interesting things so
um the way that i describe it and i talk
about it in the book secrets of
successful sales is
that and it's really interesting because
i know that some your listeners
are obviously sales professionals
entrepreneurs and and sales leaders
and i think a lot of the staff
if you work for a big organization you
don't really have to know the difference
between sales and marketing because
you're purely in a sales function
and you've got all these fancy names now
that i i can't remember sdr's or like
like i can't remember what they're all
called because in in my day it would
have called it outbound telly
or inbound telly or like outbound
fielder
so it's interesting but if you look my
little
analogy on marketing is about golf
so marketing to me they put the the tea
in the ground and put the ball in the
tee
so your linkedin profile your linkedin
posts your emails your tweets
your website your mail shots
all of that is marketing and then as in
sales
we take it down the fairway put it in
the green
we put it right up to the pen and then
we
put it in the bowl put the ball in the
hole because when the bulge is in the
hole that's when we make money that's
when the sale happens
and then usually what happens is if i'm
doing this live i'll have some
smarty pants in the audience will put up
their hand and go that's a load of
rubbish
that's rubbish allison what happens is
as in marketing
the marketing department we put the tea
in the ground we put the ball in the tea
and we put
the ball right up to the pin and you
sales guys tap it in and take all the
glory
and i think if your marketing is good so
if you've got really good marketing
actually it's as easy as that so now
again if you look at an inbound if
you've done
linkedin so sometimes people will come
to me you've seen your stuff on linkedin
i'm really interested alison can i
come on one of your courses can i buy
your book can i do whatever
that's just good marketing but i think
we all crave
the holy grail which is a hole-in-one
for marketing where people just
you look at amazon and ebay that's not
sales at all that's just a pure hole in
one for marketing that's the holy grail
interesting and we could certainly talk
about this all day um
but yeah i mean i'd argue as well
without going into it too much that
sales reps i think i've said this on
previous episodes sales rep should be
doing their own marketing and what i
mean by that
is not just relying on marketing to hand
inbound leads but they should be using
tools like social like linkedin
posting daily engaging with other posts
like you say reaching out to people who
read their profile with
value as in what prompted you to look at
and then yeah you use all the use all
the tools in your toolkit really i think
it's growing a personal brand i mean if
you look at what daniel disney has done
as phenomenal like the daily sales the
memes you know he was doing a lot of
that stuff when he was still employed
and he was making sales for the company
that he worked for
because he built a personal brand and i
think that's okay to do that as an
employee
definitely one more thing before we move
on so what i've found as well is do you
use linkedin
premium alison sales navigator sorry
um only just and i tell you why because
i did all that stuff without having
anything but what i
found was i would jump in and out the
trials so i would do the free trial on
the free trial
yeah but like some of my post
posts will get up to like 45 000 views
and what was happening again oh i don't
know if anybody from linkedin's
listening but i felt that my
when i came off of premium or sales
navigator
my posts weren't traveling as far and i
felt as if i was getting penalized
so i dropped back on but again i'd that
you know
please anybody from linkedin and i don't
know if that is the truth
but you know i felt that you know my a
good post for me
will be 20 000 views a really good post
will be 45
but when i was coming off i was getting
about 500
but but i
i only went on you know i was probably
on for five or six years
before i did the trial so i don't think
that you really need premium unless you
are using sales navigator as a bit of a
crm
and we've done that as well you know to
get our data but then we
tend to take that off and put it in cvs
files you know i think there's different
things you can do with it
okay yeah the only reason i ask is
because i know if you're not on sales
navigator
you can i think you can only see up to
five people at a time of who viewed your
profile per day whereas with sales
navigator
you can you can see the whole list of
everyone's viewed your profile in the
last
i think 90 days so that that's the data
i'm interested in now
which i might need to go back on it
purely for that reason so i can reach
out to the people and
start more conversations that's that was
what i was interested to ask yeah but
then i would probably look at who's
viewing my profile about six times a day
anyway just
it's constantly changing the thing with
that is if you look at
you know a sales lead so if a sales lead
comes in we all know as salespeople like
we're on that like a rash we want to be
on that within like
you know the first few minutes so
whether it's or if somebody's viewed
your profile you know you don't want to
like be too stalkerish
but if you're checking it regularly you
would pick that up anyway unless
obviously you do a great post that goes
viral
and then you can't keep up with the
views got it awesome so let's move on so
that was the bt
outbound call center what was next up um
again literally i know that i could talk
all day about sales
um so i really wanted to and i think
this is important especially now with
the job market sam
really know your worth and know what you
want
so having worked in hospitality i was
really face to face
um we then moved down to wiltshire so i
was traveling from
from um chippenham to taunton to work in
a call centre to dial out to speak to
people in chippenham
so it wasn't working and i wanted to do
field sales so i really wanted to work
for yellow pages
right literally it was my ideal job
and again i'll be quite candid the part
of the reason it was the ideal job
in 1998 the basic salary was 32
most people were earning 60 70 grand
but to get a job at yellow pages it was
for every
job 100 people had applied it was such a
sort of competitive
very competitive so they wouldn't give
me a job in field because he said i
didn't have enough experience
so i went right okay i'll go get a job
in field so i went to work for di
egbert's the coffee company and i did
that for 18 months smashed that
won the prizes and then 18 months later
i knocked on the doorman hello
it's me i'm back when do you want me to
start
i've got my fields experience i've hit
all the targets
so again i think that's really important
to have a really strong goal and company
that you want to work with you know if
you want to work
for microsoft and you don't get through
paper sift
but get the feedback tweak what you do
and then go back
so you know i think that's really
important and then
i spent 15 years working for yale
and i smashed it and i won the prizes
and i won the trips and
and then um i was actually asked back i
was due to do this
um before lockdown was to be the keynote
speaker at their annual sales conference
because like like the prodigal daughter
was going to return so
um we still will do something with yell
but um we're still waiting for the
obviously the timing to be right for
that so yeah i think the important thing
is if you really want to work for a
company
it's just like selling yourself it's the
same as prospecting isn't it
great and you've reminded me of
something you said earlier and i love
the fact that they said basically you
need some experience so you went to
another company proved that
for 18 months or so and then went
straight back in the door you mentioned
about having a solid sales process
so i know we we're strapped for time but
let's
let's quickly go over a process that can
work for most people in sales if we may
so i know there's there's many sales
process out there you've got challenger
you've got sandler selling you got loads
and typically they're
gonna build rapport find the pain find
out um things like budget decision maker
and timelines and then establish if
there's a fit so that's
that's a rough kind of selling cycle is
that something you follow if you've got
something a bit more
detailed i took a lot of the stuff that
i had learned at yale a lot of stuff i'd
learned at bt
a lot of the stuff i had learned in
hospitality so when i was writing the
book i had to work out what i was going
to teach you know what
what was my process so i look at again
the customer in the middle and a lot of
the stuff i do is a around disc i'm a
disc practitioner so
around understanding behaviors and you
know one of my things is don't treat
other people
how you want to be treated because
that's how we were all brought up so
flip the coin and treat them the way
that they want to be treated
so again you know the same the
introduction what's in it for them
asking great questions listen and get to
the need
you know but i think the bits that i
find um
that people like that i teach that are
different to the other processes
is quite relatable so for me if i go out
with a field salesperson
you know sometimes they forget to set
the table and what i
mean by that is you know if we're all
going out for dinner and it's a set meal
you've got two forks
two knives and a fork and a spoon we all
know we're having a three-course dinner
people start to to go in and do the
questions without saying look
i'm going to be asking questions around
this and the next thing it's going to
take about 30 minutes
and what my expectation is at the end of
this then i'll be taking that away and
we'll come back we'll set another
appointment and we'll do this
because then everybody knows what's
going on
sometimes when people don't set the
table the customer's got no idea
why somebody's asking those questions
and it goes squiff it just goes off
and i mean it's interesting you talk
about challenger sale because i'm a
believer in challenging but the problem
is
so many people haven't earned the right
to challenge and it can become quite
aggressive
um especially again in a male to male
sales sometimes again as a woman in
sales we've got i feel we've got a bit
of an advantage because
we um we can get round things a little
bit slicker and quicker without it being
so confrontational but
you know i've seen some horror stories
for people challenging at the wrong time
and and
it not working out so well it can be
tough and you're exactly right
i actually had a cool that was similar
to that this morning really
um with a guy that was strapped for time
and i was trying to find out a bit more
about an inquiry made with us by email i
think it was a while ago
and yeah just just very very
confrontational like i've already got
something in place for this um
just just not really wanting to talk so
if you've got any tips for how we can
kind of let's say defuse people that are
in um they might have had a really bad
weekend
everything might have gone their wife
might have left them their dog might
have died their cat just got run over
they just picked up the phone to a sales
professional
how can you calm someone down well a
couple of things i think
and this is quite controversial right
because
um and i know it's a closed question
but you know it's now a good time to
have a conversation about this because
you don't know what's going on
and a lot of people oh especially when
you phone me some i get
so irritated people start they don't
even ask me any questions they just boom
with all the garbage i'm not interested
and that that makes me mad so sometimes
actually it's the salesperson's actions
that cause that friction because
you know people are scared to ask is now
a good time to speak in case they jump
off the hook but
if it really isn't a good time to speak
why would you try and get somebody to
speak because
they're never going to buy from you
anyway you know how you fix for a few
minutes now
no i'm really i'm under a car or i'm you
know cleaning up
child sick or whatever timing
is everything you know the point about
the yell story is it took me 18 months
to go and get a job with them
you know don't it's based on the time
and being right
so um i would say that that
you know that is you know and so many
people say don't say that i disagree i
completely disagree with that
um the other thing is the behavior so if
that's a task focused
extrovert if that's a red on the disc um
spectrum
then they will they will not cut you
know they've got no emotional connection
to you they're not
focused on people at all only the task
and that's why so many people again try
and be polite we don't
they don't change their behavior whereas
again if it's somebody like that
you know dave i need to talk to you for
two minutes we were talking about this
how you fixed to do that now
that no i've not got two minutes give me
a call back on tuesday right dave what
time
and dave just out of interest if one
means
that you know what this is never going
to happen you're just trying to fold me
off and
five means you really want to talk to me
where are you on a scale of
one to five dave oh i'm interested i
think it might be it's just not a great
time
scale and test their intention you know
unless you've only got three customers
in the whole world
and you need to treat them with kit
gloves i think again that's what i mean
by challenging and again i know that my
tone
my pace at the moment is quite fast and
quite aggressive but that's because
we're running outside yeah no that's
fine
actually it's you know you look at um
the person that you're dealing with it's
all in the boot
secrets of successful sale i love that
it's it's that could also be applied i
guess when people when you're reaching
out to people
let's say coldish and they say oh just
send me and send me an email
or send me some information and things
like that and it's like well
if you use your scale that you've just
measured there on a scale of one
to zero being not interested five being
very interested where would you place
yourself if they say zero or one
they just want the email to get off the
phone if they if they actually peek it
higher then they actually do wanna hear
from you so yeah definitely and the
other thing with that is again
if you look at the behaviors a green
who's a relationship-focused
introvert it's already my tone and my
pace
is a little bit softer and what will
happen with them is
they don't like to tell you no so they
ghost you so i'm sure
everybody's got people in their pipeline
that have been ghosted and actually
you thought they're quite nice they're a
really nice person and it's just they
fear to say no to you
and especially if you're a red sales
person you're going i need to know now i
want it now
press the order press hard five copies
and the green
they go that's no problem can you just
send me an email
to never gonna happen.com and then what
i'm gonna do is i'm just gonna go
straight for the rest of your life
so you know and i think the behaviors
is such a key part of it and so many
people don't know it they've never been
taught it
and i think again it depends when you
come from a big corporate company
they ram it down your neck forever but
if you're in a small
organization or you're an entrepreneur
this stuff is is one of the massive keys
um
definitely behavior great tip love it
okay
so moving on was there was there any
more actionable tips you could share
with us before you decided to take the
leap alison and set up on your own
so um i mean i think for me i didn't
really want to ever
set up my own business but i think
another key tip is and i think now that
the world has changed that
you have to believe in what you sell
because if you don't 100 believe in it
you're really going to struggle to sell
it and
and again it's interesting around
entrepreneurism because a lot of people
talk about
you know would you like to make six or
seven figures you know do you want to
get rich quick blah blah blah
blah blah if you do anything just solely
for the money
it's never going to work you know you
have to believe that your product or
service is
you know the white knight saving that
person's whatever it is you're saving
so um i would say that and
it's interesting around change because
i've always been
you know quite of a force for change i
believe in change
believe in doing things differently but
when you're selling a product and it's
not evolving
with the pace of change that you are
then you know maybe that isn't the right
company to work for don't
you know look for what you really want
to do again going back to the
why i wanted to work for yale in the
first place and made a strategy an
18-month strategy to get a job with them
i love that okay yeah you've got to
enjoy it you've got to be passionate i
couldn't agree more
it's just just no real longevity in it
is there really in terms of what you do
and i think then and what you will then
do you you could do it but you probably
i do want to miss one do one miss one
target hitter and
you know i i i talk about the stars you
know they stay positive they're
resilient they're always focused they're
tenacious and that's what equals success
so i think it is the combination
of those things but if you don't believe
in your product you're really going to
struggle to sell it anyway
100 right let's talk a bit more about
your your company
sales coaching solutions limited i know
you've acquired some great customers as
we said in your intro such as sky the
discovery channel and many more
so it'd be great to learn a bit more
about how you set up allison
was it easy did you have a line of
customers knocking at your door saying
please welcome you please work with me
or are we hitting the phones we hitting
the emails we're using digital marketing
tell us a bit more about what the early
days were like and how you scaled it up
the early days were so rough i mean i
think my top tip for this
anybody that is thinking about setting
up their own business no matter what it
is they're thinking about doing
the temptation is you just want to jack
in your job and start doing it
don't do that i mean literally thank
goodness my husband is captain sensible
because
i would rejected my job and started
doing it but it make it puts you under a
lot of pressure because at least if
you're working when you set the business
up you've still got money coming through
because
90 percent of startups fail so there is
a chance that your business might not
work
so for me what i did was i did part-time
and then i ran the business part-time
but it was hilarious sam i kid you not
right i'm
i'm literally covering this my new
book's called the art of getting what
you want right
and i'm writing about this at the moment
because when i started the business
i i just didn't have a clue and i had
real impostor syndrome i mean
i i kid you not i went to a networking
event in troll bridge right so you know
where that is
and um there was two ladies that ran the
network and elaine
and emma and they said that guy over
there wants sales training
and in my head i'm like oh he doesn't
want me then because i'm not really a
sales trainer i'm just like somebody
that's good at sales that's pretending
to run a business
and you know what literally i met the
guy a few years later and he went i
really would have worked with you i
really liked him i'm like oh my god i
was like so scared and i think that was
it was really i was frightened
but i think when the first inquiry did
come through my website and it was a
recruitment consultancy
and i did some work with them and i
think that gave me confidence
and then what i did was i did a lot of
face-to-face networking and i did a lot
of
um but in london so again i always
go back to marketing and how that fits
together
um i always want to play big you know i
never just wanted to be a little
you know training company in wheelchair
i want
i want to take over the world literally
i i will take over the world
um and go global with everything it's
interesting you should say that i had a
similar experience like for example
because we're local we i used to go to
a lot of networking events in the
southwest yeah but i
i don't know what you think but this is
probably just my ignorance i'm not a
massive face-to-face person so i am an
introvert
and that's why i love inside selling i
love seeing people with the phone via
zoom etc
and i found a lot of it was just hot air
as in i was just talking to a lot of
people in these events
and only got one or two leads yeah we
got a few sales and i thought
this this was just this was probably
about five or six years ago at the time
linkedin was getting hotter and hotter
and i thought look i can
spend a heck of a lot better use my time
on linkedin plus i can do all the other
stuff whilst i'm at the office
yeah and uh i can build up my pipeline
that way um so i just moved it all
digital
um but i like what you're saying kind of
you went where the big hitters were in
london
because obviously yeah big business to
be had there yeah i think that comes
back to growing a personal brand so what
i talk about in the book
this secrets of successful sales i talk
about the chocolate bar strategy
and i compare myself to a cadbury daily
milk so like when i'm at work
um you'll see me i'll always wear pink
so you know
there's a story behind the pink i went
to downing street did the research
it was meeting the prime minister and
all that kind of stuff and i'm thinking
right what do people wear and they all
wore black coats i'm like
not on my watch so i rushed off to david
homes and i got a pink coat so that's
where the brandon pink comes from
because why would blend in when you can
stand out and again
coming back to the cadbury dairy milk
strategy so i think for me
you know it was a natural um
transition to obviously you know go to
the garden party be voted one of the
uk's top ten business advisors it didn't
really happen by luck it happened by
strategy
and again as part of the cadbury dairy
milk when you start to grow a brand when
you start to get you know people
recognize it as a brand
value somebody they want to work with
like no and trust
then you do create more inbound
inquiries
um but we don't get like we don't get
the traditional like we do
sometimes do google adwords and stuff
like that but our phone really never
rings
most of our stuff will come from like me
being proactive
and and using a strategy of who do i
want to work with so
if you look at the discovery channel
that came from
one of my clients was in the maserati
100 which is a big event for
entrepreneurs
he couldn't attend at sunday times
building i went in his place
i worked the room did some sales
training one of the ladies that i
trained
was the head head guy discovery
channel's wife
so again that came from literally me
being in london at the right place
same with sky i spoke at an event when
people compete touch wood one of us
my strengths is i'm really good on stage
and people engage with what i say
so when you hear me speak it starts to
and that's where the
inquiries come but you don't always get
allowed to be on a stage so things like
the business show
um or the sales innovation expo you know
you have to work hard
at getting a profile that they would
want so that you attract
people to your stage so again that's
where another thing about sales and
marketing working together
it's really important that sales and
marketing work together
great stuff okay so it sounds like quite
a mix of things really face-to-face
networking
public speaking the dogs enjoyed that
one
sorry sam you see right now your dog
barking
never we've got a little pup ourselves
um so then you've got events
and then outreaching as well it sounds
like so reaching out to people you want
to proactive i think my word for
everything is proactive whether you're
proactive on linkedin whether you're
proactive in face-to-face whether you're
proactive on the phone
i think that that's the difference
between a a top performing salesperson
and i do one miss one you know you do
things proactively if you don't do
things proactively
you're never going to be an overachiever
well that's that's been great alison
we've covered some great grounds we've
learned your story we've learned how
you've built your business up for anyone
that's tuning in that's thinking about
taking the leap and wants to start their
own business
or anyone who's recently started their
own company are there any tips or quick
golden nuggets of advice that you could
share that may help them
yeah i definitely have a plan um
definitely set good foundations
definitely learn to sell so many people
annoy me because they think oh yeah i'm
going to set up a business and then
and then they go oh yes and i'm going to
get a sales person and well
you know how much a salesperson costs
they're a commodity a good salesperson
is a really costly asset
you need to really nobody loves your
baby the way you love your baby and
that's why at the start of a business
journey
you need to sell it yourself but i've
got a free course sam if they jump on
entrepreneursgodmother.com um i've got
two free courses one for sales and one
for starting a business so
they can work their way through that
there's no charge for it so it's
entrepreneurs godmother dot com
great name and is there one thing that
people should be doing with digital
marketing
from today that's going to help their
business
i think don't be afraid so you know
sometimes
we i've lost a lot of weight sam and i'm
rebranding
and there's a there's a big announcement
huge announcement which comes out in the
autumn
and sometimes i i worry if i over post
or
overshare or put too many pictures of
myself or but the feeds run so fast
what's the worst that's going to happen
somebody goes i don't like her
i'm going to unsubscribe well i welcome
unsubscribers because if you don't want
to be in there you don't want to learn
from me
go and learn from somebody else i used
to get offended and upset when i would
lose a follower or
somebody would say like a mean comment
or you know somebody would say something
and now i honestly think you're not
going to sell to everyone all the time
anyway so just you know do your bet if
you don't post then there's one thing
for sure if you're not posting people
are definitely not going to find out
about you
so you know that that would be my top
tip don't be afraid
think of new angles finish on an open
question and try and get some engagement
that grows your profile
awesome love it and completely agree i
mean there's well over 600 million
people on linkedin so if when it comes
to social especially
if someone on follow follows you it's
not the end of the world there's uh
there's a few more million people there
to do business with
yeah and i welcome them don't you know
i've got a thick skin
like a rhinoceros thick skin needed in
sales that's for sure
excellent well you've been tuning into
sam's business growth show where we sit
down business leaders
experts and entrepreneurs from around
the globe we find out their story how
digital marketing is helping along the
way
and exclusive tips and insights to help
you skyrocket your business
so we'd like to ask everyone that comes
on if you could thank just one person
either dead or alive having a positive
influence on yourself and your career
who would that be
and why lorraine lester
who you've never heard of so lorraine is
my friend from school
from way back and at the time when
i was i didn't know what i was doing and
i think we're all
you know we get to a crossroads and it's
a bit like who wants to be a millionaire
we phone our friend
and lorraine lester said to me you're
going to set up a sales training company
to teach people to sell the way that
you sell from your heart and with your
passion
and to this day and forever i will be
grateful to lorraine leicester
brilliant stuff so allison tell us a bit
more about your
business tell us more about the book and
how everyone can connect and get in
touch with you
so i would adore it if everybody could
follow my youtube channel so if you find
alison edgar on youtube i'm putting out
some amazing content
literally around change around sales
around entrepreneurship around
confidence
literally the stuff is amazing we love
it um so youtube channel definitely on
all social i'm at the alison edgar
on twitter on insta on facebook
and then on uh linkedin it's allison
edgar so that's the best way if you find
me on social
i'm quite easy to think or you could use
this thing that we use for sales which
we find phenomenal
it's called google alison edgar like
i've got quite a few pages i'm not hard
to find
excellent stuff alison thanks so much
for coming on thank you sam thank you so
much for having me
are you tired of constantly hunting for
new customers
you could be missing out on regular
inbound opportunities all because your
website isn't on the first page of
google
perhaps you're already spending lots of
money on advertising but your website is
failing to convert
all of your hard-earned visitors into a
consistent flow
of new customers if you'd like to learn
more about our unusual approach
that brings idle clients straight to you
connect with sam dunning on linkedin
or book a free 20-minute consultation by
webchoiceuk.com
that's webchoiceuk.com
subscribe today for more digital
marketing sales and business growth tips
from the experts